# Summary<p>These notebooks explore the cities of Cologne and Nashville using geospatial or geographic data.</p><p>"Geographic data and information is defined in the ISO/TC 211 series of standards as data and information having an implicit or explicit association with a location relative to Earth (a geographic location or geographic position)."<br><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geographic_data_and_information" target="_blank">Wikipedia</a> </p><p>Here this means in practical terms 'longitudes' and 'latitudes' are used. Two coordinate reference systems are mainly applied here: EPSG:4326 and EPSG:3857.</p><p>"A spatial reference system (SRS) or coordinate reference system (CRS) is a coordinate-based local, regional or global system used to locate geographical entities. A SRS commonly defines a specific map projection, as well as transformations between different SRS."<br><a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spatial_reference_system" target="_blank">Wikipedia</a>  </p><p>It is of overall important to apply the right crs for the operation in case.<br>Otherwise major trouble is ahead.<br>More on this in the notebook.</p> <p>In a Python perspective the <b>Geopandas</b> package is applied here.</p> <p>"GeoPandas is an open source project to make working with geospatial data in python easier. GeoPandas extends the datatypes used by pandas to allow spatial operations on geometric types. Geometric operations are performed by shapely. Geopandas further depends on fiona for file access and matplotlib for plotting."<br><a href="https://geopandas.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html" target="_blank">GeoPandas</a>  </p> <p>I am totally agreeing  with this. In general it makes life easier and is an entry point into themany geopspatial packages and dependencies behind it.</p><p>Further topics explored here are:</p><p><ul>  <li>Shapefiles</li>  <li>GeoDataFrames</li>  <li>GeoJson</li>  <li>Geospatial Joins</li>  <li>Geopspatial calculations</li>  <li>Geopandas plots</li>  <li>Folium plots</li>  <li>Choropleth plots</li></ul>                                                                                                                     </p>                                                                                                                      